# Internationalization

To make the application multi lingual it uses internationaliuazion through the [vue-i18n](http://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/en/) module.

The base configuration is done in the `plugins/i18n.js`. Here you may also change the base language used, if the translated is not available.

Quasar components already include translations which will be used automatically.

## Structure

Under `/i18n` the individual language files are loaded:

    /i18n/index,js      # loading all languages
    /i18n/en/index,js   # loading english
    /i18n/en/layout.js  # layout translations
    /i18n/en/core.js    # core group translation

But it is also possible to put some local translations, which are only for the specific page or component, within the '.vue' file.

### i18n files

All the javascript files listet above will evaluate to a big translation object. As it is javascript you may also use functions to generate them.

### Single File Components

Additionally you may position the translations within the `.vue` files with a special `i18n` tag containing JSON data on the top.

    <i18n>
    {
      "en": {
        "hello": "hello world!"
      },
      "de": {
        "hello": "Hallo zusammen！"
      }
    }
    </i18n>

This can be used within this file like it is set in the root of the main translation object.

The translations here may overwrite entries from the main if the name is identical, but only in this '.vue' file itself.

## Usage

The general `$t` (translate) function registered in Vue is used therefore.
To specify the translation element we use the above defined structure with it's readavle short path names to access in templates:

    {{ $t('core.info.title') }}

And within the component/page's script code use it like:

    this.$t('core.info.title')

__Variables__

    hello: 'Dear {name}'

    // use it like:
    {{ $t('hello', { name: 'Alex' }) }}
    // output will be:
    Dear Alex

__Pluralization__

Therefore the `$tc` (translate count) function is used.
You can give two alternatives which are used for singular or plural:

    car: 'car | cars',

    // use it like:
    {{ $tc('car', 3) }}
    // output will be:
    cars

You may also use a special text for none:

    apple: 'no apples | one apple | {count} apples'

    // use it like:
    {{ $tc('apple', 5, { count: 5 }) }}
    // output will be:
    5 apples

    // use it like:
    {{ $tc('apple', 0) }}
    // output will be:
    no apples

__Date__

The `$d` (date) function helps you to get localized dates:

    short: {
      year: 'numeric', month: 'short', day: 'numeric'
    },
    long: {
      year: 'numeric', month: 'short', day: 'numeric',
      weekday: 'short', hour: 'numeric', minute: 'numeric'
    }

    // use it like:
    {{ $d(new Date(), 'short') }}
    // output will be:
    Apr 19, 2017

__Numbers__

And at last the `$n` (number) function helps formatting numbers.

    currency: {
      style: 'currency', currency: 'EUR', currencyDisplay: 'symbol'
    }

    // use it like:
    {{ $n(100, 'currency') }}
    // output will be:
    $100.00

## Translation

To translate into another language you have to
- copy the english files
- replace the translations within
- add with new language shortcut as directory name
- load it in the `i18n/index.js`
- add option in the layout to select language

But keep in mind if some '.vue' files have their own translations this have to be translated, too.
So if you wan't to translate into multiple languages better move them into the central structure.
